docs: liquidation manual (#1756)
umee-network/umee: docs/liquidators/manual.md

> # Manual Liquidations

Reviewer: shall we put this in `/x/leverage/docs`?

Author: It's docs for our chain operations, not just a module. We probably need a more central location for that kind of thing

Reviewer: The last thing we should have is "15+" (read many) places for documentation. We already have `design_docs` and `x/leverage`. The former is more for discussion, the latter is more about usage. Hence:
* Let's use `x/leverage` for everything `x/leverage` user related
* let's use `docs/...` for everything general (setting up a chain, general requirements).

Author: I'll move it to `x/leverage` - having a link in the root readme as well should keep it accessible enough.

Running liquidations on Umee requires four main steps:

- Preparing a liquidator account
- Querying for eligible liquidation targets
- Executing a liquidation transaction
- Selling liquidation rewards for a profit

This document contains notes on how to do these manually - a more sophisticated approach would be to automate one or more steps and monitor the results.

## Preparing a Liquidator Account

> Any wallet you control can be used as a liquidator, as long as it has a pool of assets and tokens for gas on the relevant chains.

Reviewer: Why talking about other chains? I think it is not relevant. Liquidation happens on Umee. So a liquidator has to have:
Umee account with tokens required for liquidation. Eg, to liquidate `100 AXL-USDC` and `50 ATOM`, the liquidator has to have at least:
1.  `100 AXL-USDC` and `50 ATOM`
2. `1UMEE` for transaction fees (variable).

Author: That's not the full picture - this manual covers the full operation because it is meant to help validators and other third parties get started.

Reviewer: I know, but it reads that a user has to have other native tokens, which is not a hard requirements (again: user doesn't need to have native Osmo to liquidate AXL-USDC - this creates confusion when doing a first read). Hence my proposal to break it down, and firstly cover the basic usage, and in other section cover other recommending steps.

Author: I'll try to modify the first section to make it clear that those tokens are for gas. I do still like the chronological order (setup, query, liquidate, sell) for this guide, since it allows the user to follow step by step.

Reviewer: Chronological order is good. But I would still separate it in two flows. It will make more sense.

Here is an example setup:
- `100 AXL-USDC` from axelar collateralized on [app.umee.cc](https://app.umee.cc/) with no active borrows
- `1 UMEE` on Umee
- `1 ATOM` on Cosmos Hub
- `1 AXL` on Axelar
- `1 OSMO` on Osmosis

> The main collateral will allow you to borrow any tokens required during liquidation, and the other tokens are for gas on their native chains.

Reviewer: > gas on their native chains

This is not required for liquidation. We can create a new section by explaining additional flows, a liquidator can take.

## Querying for Eligible Liquidation Targets

> There is a query on Umee nodes that lists addresses that are eligible for liquidation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Umee provides a query method to lists addresses that are eligible for liquidation.
```

On the web, it looks like `https://api.your.node.here/umee/leverage/v1/liquidation-targets`

Using the CLI, it is `umeed q leverage liquidation-targets`

> ### Enabling the Query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enabling the `liquidation-targets` Query
```

For performance reasons, this query is disabled by default:

> > Error: rpc error: code = Unknown desc = node has disabled liquidator queries

Reviewer: Can we fix the error code? `Unknown desc` sounds weird.

Author: Unfortunately the `node has disabled liquidator queries` is all I control.

The values above indicate that the borrower is small, with borrowed and supplied values of approximately 1 USD. Their borrowed value (`$0.98`) is higher than their liquidation threshold (`$0.91`) so they can be liquidated.

Next we want to see what tokens they have borrowed, and what collateral tokens of theirs can be claimed as a reward.

```sh
% umeed q leverage account-balances umee1l2jv2mym7xd442cmeqka9yvd7vxelsplnn2qn8
borrowed:
- amount: "83568"
  denom: ibc/C4CFF46FD6DE35CA4CF4CE031E643C8FDC9BA4B99AE598E9B0ED98FE3A2319F9
collateral:
- amount: "1073682"
  denom: u/ibc/49788C29CD84E08D25CA7BE960BC1F61E88FEFC6333F58557D236D693398466A
supplied:
- amount: "1077906"
  denom: ibc/49788C29CD84E08D25CA7BE960BC1F61E88FEFC6333F58557D236D693398466A
```

Here (and with the help of `umeed q leverage registered-tokens` to interpret ibc denoms) we see that the user has borrowed `0.083 ATOM` with collateral of `1.077 USDC`.

If the borrower had multiple tokens collateralized or borrowed, this would be the time to choose which ones to repay and receive as a reward. In this case, the only option for the liquidator is to repay `ATOM` and receive `USDC`.

## Executing a Liquidation Transaction

> Our intent is to repay `0.083 ATOM` on the borrower's behalf, and receive `USDC` in return. However, our liquidator account doesn't currently have `ATOM` on the Umee chain - it only has collateralized `USDC` and some `UMEE` left over for gas.

Reviewer: let's add a note and example about the maximum repay. Position may not be eligible for full liquidation. Let's explain that, and provide a way how to calculate the maximum repay.

Author: Added

Then, liquidation rewards can be withdrawn, sold on an exchange, and used to repay the borrowed tokens with some profit left over.

### Preparing Repayment

In the strategy above, the first step is to borrow `0.084 ATOM` (slightly more then the target owes, to ensure we have enough).

```sh
% umeed tx leverage borrow 84000ibc/C4CFF46FD6DE35CA4CF4CE031E643C8FDC9BA4B99AE598E9B0ED98FE3A2319F9 --from my-key --chain-id umee-1 --gas auto --gas-adjustment 3.0 --gas-prices 0.1uumee -y --broadcast-mode block
```

Appropriate flags are provided, the most imporant of which is `--broadcast-mode block`, which waits for a response to your transaction and displays the result (or error).

Now the required `ATOM` is in our account.

Another option would have been to buy `ATOM` on an exchange, or have an initial balance prepared before we selected our liquidation target.

### Liquidation Transaction

In a liquidation transaction, you need to specify three things:
- target address (`umee1l2jv...`)
- repayment coin (`84000ibc/C4CFF...`, which is `0.084 ATOM`)

> - reward token (`ibc/49788...`, which is USDC)

Author: ```suggestion
- reward token (`ibc/49788...`, which is `USDC`)
```

In this case (from `umeed q leverage registered-tokens`) USDC has `"liquidation_incentive": "0.05"` which means the reward will be 105% the value of the tokens repaid.

Repaying `$0.98` worth of borrowed ATOM rewarded us `$1.03` in USDC, out of the borrower's `$1.07` in collateral.

## Selling Liquidation Rewards for a Profit

To lock in our profits, we should trade the liquidation rewards we received back into the token denom we repaid.

In our case, we
- Transfer `1.03 USDC` from UMEE to Axelar using IBC
- Transfer `1.03 USDC` from Axelar to Osmosis using IBC (requires `AXL` gas)
- Trade `1.03 USDC` for `0.088 ATOM` on Osmosis
- Transfer `0.088 ATOM` from Osmosis to Cosmos Hub (requires `OSMO` gas)
- Transfer `0.088 ATOM` from Cosmos Hub to Umee (requires `ATOM` gas)
- Repay `0.084001 ATOM` on Umee (our borrow accrued a few minutes of interest)

For reference, the repayment looks like:

```sh
% umeed tx leverage repay 84001ibc/C4CFF46FD6DE35CA4CF4CE031E643C8FDC9BA4B99AE598E9B0ED98FE3A2319F9 --from my-key --chain-id umee-1 --gas auto --gas-adjustment 3.0 --gas-prices 0.1uumee -y --broadcast-mode block
```

The liquidator account has returned to its initial state, except:

> - An extra `0.04 ATOM` in its balance on Umee (profit)

Author: ```suggestion
- An extra `0.004 ATOM` in its balance on Umee (profit)
```
